---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---
<!-- omit in toc -->
## ENGL 256: Fantasy Literature
Elizabeth Dinneny  
edinneny@umd.edu  
Office: Tawes 2230  

MWF 12:00-12:30  
Classroom: Tawes 0221

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Contents
[1. Course Description](course-description)  
[2. Course Policies](course-policies)  
[3. Labor-Based Grading Contract](labor-based-grading-contract)  
[4. Required Texts](required-texts)  
[5. Schedule](schedule)  
 

### Course Description
How fantasy employs alternate forms of representation, such as the fantastical, estranging, or impossible, which other genres would not allow. Through novels, short stories, graphic novels, and film, traces fantasy's roots in mythology and folklore, then explores how modern texts build upon or challenge these origins. Examination of literary strategies texts use to represent the world through speculative modes. How to distinguish fantasy from, and relate it to, other genres such as science fiction, horror, fairly tales, and magical realism. Fantasy's investment in world-building, history, tradition, and categories of identity such as race, class, and gender. How fantasy, as a genre, form, and world-view, is well-suited to our contemporary reality.

### Course Policies

### Labor-Based Grading Contract
#### Overview
Grades for this course are assigned using a labor-based grading contract. The contact states that if a student fulfills all of the course requirements, then they will receive a previously established grade. Students who do not fulfill the requirements will receive a diminished grade for the course. Extra labor can be completed for a higher grade.  

This means that I will give you plenty of feedback on your writing, but I will not grade you based on your writing. Rather, I will assess the labor that you put into your assignments and the class. Labor-based assessment guarantees that each student receives a fair grade and makes space for you to enjoy and take risks in your writing.  

#### Established Standards
The standard grade for this course is 87% (B+). You will receive this grade if you fulfill these requirements:
1. Participate in all classes
   * You have five "free passes" for missed participation including absences.
   * We will define "participation" together as a class.
2. Submit all of your major writing assignments on time.
3. Submit all of your drafts on time and participate in peer review on time.
4. Meet with and participate in your RPG group 3 times.  

If you do not meet one of these requirements, your grade drops to a B. If you do not meet two of the requirements, your grade drops to a B-, etc. 

To increase your grade, you must fulfill the requirements for a B+ outlined in the previous section *and* complete additional labor. See the following requirements:  
* To receive an A-: complete two self-assigned extra labor tasks.  
* To receive an A: complete three self-assigned labor tasks.  

I understand that unexpected events might affect your ability to submit an assignment on time. Please see the Accomodations and Accessibility policy and communicate with me if such a circumstance arises.

**Defining participation**:  [etc]

### Assignments
**Daily readings**. est. 1-3 labor hours per course meeting.   
**RPG Group**. est. 12 hours over the semester.  
**Magic System Paper**. est. 7-10 hours total.   
**Annotated Bibliography**. est. 9-12 hours total.  
**Final Project**. TBD labor hours.  

#### Self-Assigned Extra Labor
You must fulfill the requirements for all of the above projects in order to receive a B+  in the course. To earn a higher grade, you will need to complete additional labor. Remember that you need to complete two extra labor assignments to receive an A-, and you will need to complete three extra labor assignments to receive an A. Extra labor projects are listed below. You cannot complete the same assignment more than once. I am open to other forms of extra labor. If you have an idea, let me know.

**Film adaptation response paper.**  
Several of the texts that we are reading for class have film adaptations. These are:
* *The Green Knight* (2021)
* *The Hobbit* (note: this is a trilogy. You need only watch one.)
* *Beowulf* (2007)  

To complete this assignment, you will:
1. Watch the film 
2. Write a four-page double-spaced paper in response to the film. You should 1) identify points of difference between the text and film; 2) identify affordances of the film genre for representing a fantasy text; and 3) discuss how the film changed or reinforced your original reading of the text. 

**RPG Character Creation**. 

### Required Texts  
You can purchase texts at the UMD Bookstore, a local bookstore, or online. Please use the ISBN to try to find the editions below.

Le Guin, Ursula. *Tombs of Atuan.* ISBN:  
Headley (translator), *Beowulf*. ISBN:  
Tolkien, J.R.R. (editor). *Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.* ISBN:  
---. *The Hobbit.* ISBN:  
Ishiguro, Kazuo. *The Buried Giant.* ISBN:  
Jemisin, N. K.. *The Fifth Season.* ISBN:  
Bradbury, Ray. *Something Wicked This Way Comes.* ISBN:   
Clark. *Ring Shout.* ISBN:  

#### Acknowledgements
Many thanks to [name] for the syllabus upon which ours is based.

### Schedule
#### Unit 1: Introduction to Genre
**Week 1**  
M August 26 -  no reading!  
W August 28 -  
F August 30 -    
#### Unit 2: Psychoanalysis and Greek Myth  
**Week 2**  
M September  
W September  
F September   
**Week 3**  
M
W
F
#### Unit 3: Fables, Fairies, Folklore  
**Week 4**  
M
W
F
**Week 5**  